# sambaVer
Description:

    sambaVer.py version 1.2

    Description: Python-based scanner for Unix Samba Server version enumeration. smbclient versions > 4.5.8 within
    Kali Linux no longer display the Unix Samba version for all versions.

    See: https://bugs.kali.org/view.php?id=4103 for Kali bug report.

    The bug hinders users from obtaining info necessary to solve VulnHub's "Kioptrix Level 1" via exploiting the
    vulnerable Samba server. Although there are other ways to exploit Kioptrix Level 1 without attacking the 
    Samba server, it is still a learning point.

    Metasploit's auxiliary smb scanner (auxiliary/scanner/smb/smb_version) still detects the correct Samba version,
    but sambaVer.py is for those of us who don't like to rely on Metasploit.

    This script uses pysmb's smbConnection to connect to a Samba server and generate the required network traffic.
    It then reads the packet data (response) from the Samba server and searches for the known pattern of Samba
    versions in the reply.

    Version 1.2 changes:
      - Upgrade from python 2 to python 3.
      - Updated recv_data function to check every packet as it is received for Unix Samba version instead of 
        compiling several packets and then checking.
      - Changed handling of '-s' option to always include "Samba #.#" when searching truncated version

    Version 1.1 changes:
      - Switch from using smbclient to pysmb's smbConnection to connect to the Samba server. This change lessens
        the amount of network traffic generated by sambaVer.
      - Adapted exception clauses to catch errors thrown by smbConnection failures.
      - Fixed an issue where some Samba server versions were reported with a trailing '-' character.


    Additional Notes: 

      - A future version may remove the '-2x' and '-D' options as they may be useless now that sambaVer does not
        use smbclient.

      - A manual way to find the Samba version is to run tcpdump or Wireshark and visually inspect the responses
        from the Samba server.

      - Offered under the terms of the MIT License. See LICENSE file for details.

    author: register
    email:  bytesandorbits@gmail

Usage:

    root@kali:~#  ./sambaVer.py -h
    sambaVer.py version:  1.2
    usage: sambaVer.py [-h] [-t TARGET] [-2x] [-D] [-s]

    optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -t TARGET, --target TARGET 
                          Samba Server IP Address (Mandatory)
    -2x, --double         Doubles the attempts to increase success rate on slower connections
    -D, --Deliberate      Doubles the attempts and increases the timer. This will be a slow scan
                          with the highest chance of success.
    -s, --searchsploit    Run searchsploit against truncated version information
                          detected


    root@kali:~# ./sambaVer.py -t 192.168.110.132
    sambaVer.py version:  1.2

    Executing scan against: 192.168.110.132
    **********************************************
    [+]  Found Unix Samba Version:  Samba 2.2.1a
    **********************************************


    root@kali:~# ./sambaVer.py -s -t 192.168.110.132
    sambaVer.py version:  1.2
    Will run a truncated Samba version against searchsploit

    Executing scan against: 192.168.110.132
    **********************************************
    [+]  Found Unix Samba Version:  Samba 2.2.1a
    **********************************************
    
    Executing searchsploit Samba 2.2 :
    ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------
     Exploit Title                                              |  Path
                                                                | (/usr/share/exploitdb/)
    ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------
    Samba 2.0.x/2.2 - Arbitrary File Creation                   | exploits/unix/remote/20968.txt
    Samba 2.2.0 < 2.2.8 (OSX) - trans2open Overflow (Metasploit | exploits/osx/remote/9924.rb
    Samba 2.2.2 < 2.2.6 - 'nttrans' Remote Buffer Overflow (Met | exploits/linux/remote/16321.rb
    Samba 2.2.8 (BSD x86) - 'trans2open' Remote Overflow (Metas | exploits/bsd_x86/remote/16880.rb
    Samba 2.2.8 (Linux Kernel 2.6 / Debian / Mandrake) - Share  | exploits/linux/local/23674.txt
    Samba 2.2.8 (Linux x86) - 'trans2open' Remote Overflow (Met | exploits/linux_x86/remote/16861.rb
    Samba 2.2.8 (OSX/PPC) - 'trans2open' Remote Overflow (Metas | exploits/osx_ppc/remote/16876.rb
    Samba 2.2.8 (Solaris SPARC) - 'trans2open' Remote Overflow  | exploits/solaris_sparc/remote/16330.rb
    Samba 2.2.8 - Brute Force Method Remote Command Execution   | exploits/linux/remote/55.c
    Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer Overflow (1)  | exploits/unix/remote/22468.c
    Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer Overflow (2)  | exploits/unix/remote/22469.c
    Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer Overflow (3)  | exploits/unix/remote/22470.c
    Samba 2.2.x - 'call_trans2open' Remote Buffer Overflow (4)  | exploits/unix/remote/22471.txt
    Samba 2.2.x - 'nttrans' Remote Overflow (Metasploit)        | exploits/linux/remote/9936.rb
    Samba 2.2.x - CIFS/9000 Server A.01.x Packet Assembling Buf | exploits/unix/remote/22356.c
    Samba 2.2.x - Remote Buffer Overflow                        | exploits/linux/remote/7.pl
    Samba < 2.2.8 (Linux/BSD) - Remote Code Execution           | exploits/multiple/remote/10.c
    ------------------------------------------------------------ ----------------------------------------
    Shellcodes: No Result
    
